Okta:

Okta is a cloud-based identity and access management (IAM) platform that helps organizations securely manage and authenticate user identities for applications, devices, and services.

Service in okta:
SSO
MFA
User Life cycle management
Directory Services
API Access Management

App integration types;

1.okta integrated network (OIN): like play store.options will change app to app

2.application integration wizard(AIW): custom app same options for any app

okta integrated network:

The Okta Integration Network (OIN) is a catalog of thousands of pre-built app integrations that allow Okta to connect easily with third-party tools, cloud services, and identity providers.

step 1: 
go to admin console 
navigate: Applications 
click on browse app catalog
Search for application.

Here different settings for diff applications

Step 2:Genral settings ( from application team )
application label
instance type ( prod and sand or test )
custom domain (speed-inspiration-1496)

Step3: SSO Option (From application team)
Choose the Sign-in Method (SAML,SWA,OIDC)
Advance sign-on settings 
login Url and logout url 

Step 4:Assign the App
Assign the App to user or grps

Step 5: 
Test the Integration

Application integration wizard:

The Application Integration Wizard (AIW) in Okta is a step-by-step tool that lets you create custom integrations for apps 

Steps for integration:

step 1: 
go to admin console 
navigate: Applications 
click on create app integration.

step 2:Choose the Sign-in Method
like SWA SAML OIDC

Step 3:Configure App Settings ( from application team )
App name and logo
Redirect URIs (for OIDC)
SAML ACS URL and Entity ID (for SAML) 
Login URL (for SWA)

Step 4:Assign the App
Assign the App to user or grps

Step 5: 
Test the Integration


IDP Flow and SP flow:

Sp Flow:The user tries to access the application (SP). The app redirects them to the Identity Provider (Okta) for authentication.

1.End user access service provider (app )from Brower (edge or chrome).then sp flow starts 
2.service provider redirects SAML req back to Brower 
3.brower relays SAML Req to IDP
4.IDP Identify the user
5.Then idp generates  SAML asseration and send back to Brower.
6.brower relays SAML asseration back to sp.
7.if user authenticated sends sp sends security context to Brower .
8.requset resource from sp
9.sp responds with requested resource.

IDP Flow: The user logs in directly to Okta (IdP) and then launches the app (SP) from the Okta dashboard.

1.end user access SAML IDP Portal.
2.the idp authenticate the user.
3.idp generate  SAML asseration and send back to the brower
4.brower relays SAML asseration Back to service provider.
5.if user authentication sp sends security context to brower.
6.requset the resource form sp.
7.sp responds with requested resource to the brower. 
    

